1. Iraqi forces backed by U.S. airstrikes are battling for control of Ramadi, an Islamic State stronghold in Iraq. “I think the fall of Ramadi is inevitable,” a U.S. military spokesman said, adding: “That said, it’s going to be a tough fight.” Fighting was also intense in southern Afghanistan, where British forces joined in to help direct the battle against the Taliban.
2. The Obama administration is stepping up efforts in South Africa to combat poaching, which has driven several species to near extinction and financed international criminal gangs. “The impact of wildlife trafficking isn’t just contained to Africa,” said Senator Chris Coons, Democrat of Delaware, who has pushed anti-poaching efforts.
3. Donald Trump took his criticism of Hillary Clinton into vulgar territory. At a rally for his presidential campaign in Michigan on Monday night, he said that when she lost the 2008 primary to Barack Obama, “she got schlonged.” He also referred to her debate bathroom break as “disgusting.”
4. One of our best-read articles is about how terrorist attacks in the U.S. and Paris have changed the way some American Muslims defend their faith. Many are going beyond denunciations of terrorism to grapple with uncomfortable questions. “We can’t ignore the fact that violent extremists use an interpretation of the very same books and texts that we use,” a Muslim in Chattanooga, Tenn., said.
5. Refresh your memory. You'll pass all those year-end news quizzes after scrolling through the year in pictures. Sample Q: What month was the photo above taken? A: September.
6. The authorities in China faced rising anger over the collapse of a man-made hill of dirt and construction debris that swamped part of the southern city of Shenzhen. “They were dumping dirt here day and night,” a displaced resident said. “We complained, but the government turned a blind eye.” Dozens of people are still missing.
7. Separately, China sent a warning signal to those who criticize the government. A prominent defense lawyer, Pu Zhiqiang, detained in May 2014, was given a suspended sentence that bars him from practicing law. An Amnesty International researcher said the verdict “effectively shackles one of China’s bravest champions of human rights.”